Hi friends
In this video we are going to learn about the compiler and the need of compiling.
So a compiler is actually a
software programme which translates the source code into machine level
assembly code.
So the source code means it will be written in some
high level language like C where the Assembly code is
the low level programming instructions which are closely associated with
the machine code.
So the main function of the compiler is to translate
the high level programming statements into low level programming instructions
And apart from that another important function is error detection
So see here we have a C programme written by
a user,
and as we said this is the source code.
And if you see there is a syntax error here
the user must've forgotten to add the semi colon
at the end of printf statement and if the syntax
is not right then the programme will not be executed
as we expected.
So the compiler can help us detecting such errors and
producing alerts.
So that's another function of compiler.
So a compiler can detect all the errors made by
the user and also report it as error message or alert.
Now let us discuss about the need of compiling.
So we have The high level languages like C, C++
and all to write programmes.
It is quite easy for us to read write and understand it.
but what about the machines
It cannot be understood by the machine.
The machine only knows machine level language
So if we write the programme using these high level
languages the machine will not be able to understand it
So in favour of machines can we write programmes in
machine language? Is it possible? it is possible. But it
is not really practical.
It will be extremely difficult to understand. For a single
statement or expression you might want to write a very
large code. So it is not favourable for humans,
so there is this dilemma
if we choose high level language humans can understand but
machines cannot.
If we choose machine level language machines can understand but
humans cannot.
So to solve this problem we can use a compiler
which will translate this high level language to machine level
language.
Now let us see how to compile a C programme
in Linux.
So the first step is to open the terminal and
now we need to create the C file and for
that write vim program.c
so ".c" is the file extension here and vim is the
text editor here
So now the C file is created and opened
Now you want to write the code. So press i
to enter the insert mode and now you can write
the code
And after you complete writing the code you have to
save it
And for that press escape and then : and wq
Now it will be saved and we want to compile
the programme now. for that write gcc program.c
So if you have any error in your program it
will be reported at this time
And if you have no error then you can run
the program by writing ./a.out and
the output will be shown.
So that's all and thank you for watching this video